docs/BACKGROUND_SERVICES.md, before:

# Background Services

ThesisAppRework uses three background services for task execution, cleanup, and automation. This document details their configuration, behavior, and debugging.

## Overview

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph Flask["Flask Application"]
        Factory["factory.py"]
    end
    
    subgraph Services["Background Services"]
        Task["TaskExecutionService"]
        Maint["MaintenanceService"]
        Pipeline["PipelineExecutionService"]
    end
    
    subgraph External["External Systems"]
        DB[(SQLite)]
        Analyzer["Analyzer Containers"]
        FS["Filesystem"]
    end
    
    Factory --> Task
    Factory --> Maint
    Factory --> Pipeline
    Task --> DB
    Task --> Analyzer
    Maint --> DB
    Maint --> FS
    Pipeline --> Task
```

| Service | Purpose | Default State | Trigger |
|---------|---------|---------------|---------|
| TaskExecutionService | Execute PENDING analysis tasks | **Auto-start** | Polling (2-10s) |
| MaintenanceService | Cleanup orphans and stuck tasks | **Manual** | `./start.ps1 -Mode Maintenance` |
| PipelineExecutionService | Automation pipeline orchestration | **Auto-start** | Event-driven |

---

## TaskExecutionService

**Location**: [src/app/services/task_execution_service.py](../src/app/services/task_execution_service.py)

Asynchronous daemon that picks up PENDING analysis tasks and executes them via analyzer containers.

### Lifecycle

1. **Initialization**: Started automatically in `factory.py` during Flask app creation
2. **Polling**: Queries database every 2s (test) or 10s (production) for PENDING tasks
3. **Execution**: Dispatches to `AnalyzerIntegrationService.run_analysis()`
4. **Shutdown**: Gracefully waits for current task to complete on app shutdown

### Task Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant DB as Database
    participant TES as TaskExecutionService
    participant AIS as AnalyzerIntegrationService
    participant AM as AnalyzerManager
    participant WS as Analyzer Service
    
    loop Every 2-10 seconds
        TES->>DB: Query PENDING tasks (priority DESC, created_at ASC)
    end
    
    TES->>DB: Update task → RUNNING
    TES->>AIS: run_analysis(task)
    AIS->>AM: Execute analysis
    AM->>WS: WebSocket connect
    WS-->>AM: progress_update frames
    WS-->>AM: *_analysis_result
    AM-->>AIS: Results
    AIS->>DB: Save result_summary
    TES->>DB: Update task → COMPLETED/FAILED/PARTIAL_SUCCESS
```

### Configuration

| Variable | Purpose | Default |
|----------|---------|---------|
| `TASK_POLL_INTERVAL` | Polling interval (seconds) | 10 (prod), 2 (test) |
| `TASK_TIMEOUT` | Overall task timeout (seconds) | 1800 (30 min) |

### Debugging

```python
# Check if service is running
from app.services.service_locator import ServiceLocator
service = ServiceLocator.get_task_execution_service()
print(f"Running: {service._running}")  # Should be True
print(f"Current task: {service._current_task_id}")  # None if idle

# Find stuck tasks
from app.models import AnalysisTask, AnalysisStatus
stuck = AnalysisTask.query.filter_by(status=AnalysisStatus.RUNNING).all()
for task in stuck:
    print(f"{task.task_id}: running since {task.started_at}")

# Manual recovery
python scripts/fix_task_statuses.py
```

### Common Issues

| Symptom | Cause | Solution |
|---------|-------|----------|
| Tasks stuck in PENDING | Service not running | Restart Flask app |
| Tasks stuck in RUNNING | Service crashed mid-execution | Run `scripts/fix_task_statuses.py` |
| Slow task pickup | Long poll interval | Set `TASK_POLL_INTERVAL=2` |

---

## MaintenanceService

**Location**: [src/app/services/maintenance_service.py](../src/app/services/maintenance_service.py)

Handles cleanup of orphaned resources, stuck tasks, and old data. **Manual by default** since Nov 2025.

### Behavior (Nov 2025 Update)

The service was changed to manual operation to prevent aggressive auto-cleanup during development:

| Before Nov 2025 | After Nov 2025 |
|-----------------|----------------|
| Auto-start on Flask init | Manual via `./start.ps1 -Mode Maintenance` |
| Immediate orphan deletion | 7-day grace period before deletion |
| No recovery mechanism | `missing_since` tracking with auto-restore |

### 7-Day Grace Period

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph Detection["Directory Check"]
        Check["Check filesystem"]
        Missing["Directory missing?"]
    end
    
    subgraph Grace["Grace Period"]
        Mark["Set missing_since = now"]
        Wait["Wait 7 days"]
        Restore["Clear missing_since"]
    end
    
    subgraph Action["Final Action"]
        Delete["Delete DB record"]
        Keep["Keep record"]
    end
    
    Check --> Missing
    Missing -->|Yes, first time| Mark
    Missing -->|Yes, >7 days| Delete
    Missing -->|No| Restore
    Mark --> Wait
    Wait -->|Directory returns| Restore
    Wait -->|7 days pass| Delete
    Restore --> Keep
```

### Cleanup Operations

| Operation | Behavior | Threshold |
|-----------|----------|-----------|
| Orphan apps | Mark with `missing_since`, delete after 7 days | `orphan_app_retention_days: 7` |
| Orphan tasks | Cancel tasks targeting deleted apps | Immediate |
| Stuck RUNNING tasks | Mark as FAILED | `stuck_task_timeout_minutes: 120` |
| Stuck PENDING tasks | Mark as CANCELLED | `pending_task_timeout_minutes: 240` |
| Old completed tasks | Delete from database | `task_retention_days: 30` |

### Configuration

```python
# Default configuration in MaintenanceService.__init__
config = {
    'cleanup_orphan_apps': True,
    'cleanup_orphan_tasks': True,
    'cleanup_stuck_tasks': True,
    'cleanup_old_tasks': True,
    'task_retention_days': 30,
    'stuck_task_timeout_minutes': 120,  # 2 hours
    'pending_task_timeout_minutes': 240,  # 4 hours
    'grace_period_minutes': 5,  # Skip very recent tasks
    'orphan_app_retention_days': 7,  # 7-day grace period
}
```

| Variable | Purpose | Default |
|----------|---------|---------|
| `MAINTENANCE_AUTO_START` | Auto-start cleanup | `false` |
| `MAINTENANCE_INTERVAL_SECONDS` | Interval when auto-started | 3600 (1 hour) |

### Usage

```bash
# Recommended: Manual cleanup via orchestrator
./start.ps1 -Mode Maintenance

# Direct Python execution
python -c "
from app.factory import create_app
from app.services.maintenance_service import get_maintenance_service
app = create_app()
with app.app_context():
    get_maintenance_service()._run_maintenance()
"
```

### Database Migration

If upgrading from before Nov 2025, run the migration to add the `missing_since` column:

```bash
python scripts/add_missing_since_column.py
```

### Log Output

```
[MaintenanceService] Starting maintenance run...
[MaintenanceService] Marked 2 apps as missing (grace period: 7 days)
[MaintenanceService] Restored 1 apps (filesystem directories reappeared)
[MaintenanceService] Found 1 orphan apps ready for deletion (missing for >7 days)
[MaintenanceService] Cleaned up 1 orphan app records
[MaintenanceService] Marked 3 stuck tasks as FAILED
[MaintenanceService] Deleted 15 old tasks (>30 days)
[MaintenanceService] Maintenance complete
```

---

## PipelineExecutionService

**Location**: [src/app/services/pipeline_execution_service.py](../src/app/services/pipeline_execution_service.py)

Orchestrates automation pipelines that execute multi-step workflows (generation + analysis).

### Lifecycle

1. **Initialization**: Started in `factory.py` alongside TaskExecutionService
2. **Trigger**: Event-driven (pipeline creation, task completion callbacks)
3. **Execution**: Creates AnalysisTasks and monitors their completion
4. **Completion**: Updates pipeline status based on aggregate task results

### Pipeline Flow

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> PENDING: Pipeline created
    PENDING --> RUNNING: First step starts
    RUNNING --> RUNNING: Steps progress
    RUNNING --> COMPLETED: All steps succeed
    RUNNING --> PARTIAL_SUCCESS: Some steps failed
    RUNNING --> FAILED: Critical step failed
    COMPLETED --> [*]
    PARTIAL_SUCCESS --> [*]
    FAILED --> [*]
```

### Integration with TaskExecutionService

Pipelines create child tasks that are executed by TaskExecutionService:

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph Pipeline["PipelineExecutionService"]
        P["Pipeline"]
        Step1["Step 1: Generate"]
        Step2["Step 2: Analyze"]
    end
    
    subgraph Tasks["TaskExecutionService"]
        T1["Task 1"]
        T2["Task 2"]
        T3["Task 3"]
    end
    
    P --> Step1
    Step1 --> T1
    Step1 -.->|callback| P
    P --> Step2
    Step2 --> T2
    Step2 --> T3
    T2 -.->|callback| P
    T3 -.->|callback| P
```

---

## Service Interaction

### Startup Order

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant F as factory.py
    participant M as MaintenanceService
    participant T as TaskExecutionService
    participant P as PipelineExecutionService
    
    F->>M: Initialize (manual mode)
    Note over M: No auto-start unless<br/>MAINTENANCE_AUTO_START=true
    F->>T: Initialize and start
    Note over T: Begins polling for PENDING tasks
    F->>P: Initialize and start
    Note over P: Ready for pipeline events
```

### Debugging All Services

```bash
# Check service status via Flask
python -c "
from app.factory import create_app
from app.services.service_locator import ServiceLocator

app = create_app()
with app.app_context():
    tes = ServiceLocator.get_task_execution_service()
    print(f'TaskExecutionService: running={tes._running}')
    
    # Check pending/running tasks
    from app.models import AnalysisTask, AnalysisStatus
    pending = AnalysisTask.query.filter_by(status=AnalysisStatus.PENDING).count()
    running = AnalysisTask.query.filter_by(status=AnalysisStatus.RUNNING).count()
    print(f'Tasks: {pending} pending, {running} running')
"
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [Architecture Overview](./ARCHITECTURE.md) - System design and data flow
- [Troubleshooting](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Common issues and recovery
- [API Reference](./api-reference.md) - Task API endpoints

Commit message:

feat: Implement automatic task retry mechanisms for service unavailability and enhance UI interaction handling

docs/BACKGROUND_SERVICES.md, after:

# Background Services

ThesisAppRework uses three background services for task execution, cleanup, and automation. This document details their configuration, behavior, and debugging.

## Overview

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph Flask["Flask Application"]
        Factory["factory.py"]
    end
    
    subgraph Services["Background Services"]
        Task["TaskExecutionService"]
        Maint["MaintenanceService"]
        Pipeline["PipelineExecutionService"]
    end
    
    subgraph External["External Systems"]
        DB[(SQLite)]
        Analyzer["Analyzer Containers"]
        FS["Filesystem"]
    end
    
    Factory --> Task
    Factory --> Maint
    Factory --> Pipeline
    Task --> DB
    Task --> Analyzer
    Maint --> DB
    Maint --> FS
    Pipeline --> Task
```

| Service | Purpose | Default State | Trigger |
|---------|---------|---------------|---------|
| TaskExecutionService | Execute PENDING analysis tasks | **Auto-start** | Polling (2-10s) |
| MaintenanceService | Cleanup orphans and stuck tasks | **Manual** | `./start.ps1 -Mode Maintenance` |
| PipelineExecutionService | Automation pipeline orchestration | **Auto-start** | Event-driven |

---

## TaskExecutionService

**Location**: [src/app/services/task_execution_service.py](../src/app/services/task_execution_service.py)

Asynchronous daemon that picks up PENDING analysis tasks and executes them via analyzer containers.

### Lifecycle

1. **Initialization**: Started automatically in `factory.py` during Flask app creation
2. **Polling**: Queries database every 2s (test) or 10s (production) for PENDING tasks
3. **Execution**: Dispatches to `AnalyzerIntegrationService.run_analysis()`
4. **Shutdown**: Gracefully waits for current task to complete on app shutdown

### Task Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant DB as Database
    participant TES as TaskExecutionService
    participant AIS as AnalyzerIntegrationService
    participant AM as AnalyzerManager
    participant WS as Analyzer Service
    
    loop Every 2-10 seconds
        TES->>DB: Query PENDING tasks (priority DESC, created_at ASC)
    end
    
    TES->>DB: Update task → RUNNING
    TES->>AIS: run_analysis(task)
    AIS->>AM: Execute analysis
    AM->>WS: WebSocket connect
    WS-->>AM: progress_update frames
    WS-->>AM: *_analysis_result
    AM-->>AIS: Results
    AIS->>DB: Save result_summary
    TES->>DB: Update task → COMPLETED/FAILED/PARTIAL_SUCCESS
```

### Configuration

| Variable | Purpose | Default |
|----------|---------|---------|
| `TASK_POLL_INTERVAL` | Polling interval (seconds) | 10 (prod), 2 (test) |
| `TASK_TIMEOUT` | Overall task timeout (seconds) | 1800 (30 min) |
| `PREFLIGHT_MAX_RETRIES` | Max retries for service unavailability | 3 |
| `TRANSIENT_FAILURE_MAX_RETRIES` | Max auto-recovery attempts for failed tasks | 3 |

### Automatic Retry Behavior (December 2025)

The TaskExecutionService implements robust retry mechanisms:

1. **Pre-flight Check Retries**: When analyzer services are unavailable, tasks are automatically rescheduled with exponential backoff (30s, 60s, 120s) up to `PREFLIGHT_MAX_RETRIES` times.

2. **Transient Failure Recovery**: Tasks that failed due to service unavailability are automatically recovered when services become available (checked every 5 minutes).

3. **Stuck Task Recovery**: Tasks stuck in RUNNING state for >15 minutes are reset to PENDING for retry (up to 3 retries).

### Debugging

```python
# Check if service is running
from app.services.service_locator import ServiceLocator
service = ServiceLocator.get_task_execution_service()
print(f"Running: {service._running}")  # Should be True
print(f"Current task: {service._current_task_id}")  # None if idle

# Find stuck tasks
from app.models import AnalysisTask, AnalysisStatus
stuck = AnalysisTask.query.filter_by(status=AnalysisStatus.RUNNING).all()
for task in stuck:
    print(f"{task.task_id}: running since {task.started_at}")

# Manual recovery
python scripts/fix_task_statuses.py
```

### Common Issues

| Symptom | Cause | Solution |
|---------|-------|----------|
| Tasks stuck in PENDING | Service not running | Restart Flask app |
| Tasks stuck in RUNNING | Service crashed mid-execution | Run `scripts/fix_task_statuses.py` |
| Slow task pickup | Long poll interval | Set `TASK_POLL_INTERVAL=2` |

---

## MaintenanceService

**Location**: [src/app/services/maintenance_service.py](../src/app/services/maintenance_service.py)

Handles cleanup of orphaned resources, stuck tasks, and old data. **Manual by default** since Nov 2025.

### Behavior (Nov 2025 Update)

The service was changed to manual operation to prevent aggressive auto-cleanup during development:

| Before Nov 2025 | After Nov 2025 |
|-----------------|----------------|
| Auto-start on Flask init | Manual via `./start.ps1 -Mode Maintenance` |
| Immediate orphan deletion | 7-day grace period before deletion |
| No recovery mechanism | `missing_since` tracking with auto-restore |

### 7-Day Grace Period

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph Detection["Directory Check"]
        Check["Check filesystem"]
        Missing["Directory missing?"]
    end
    
    subgraph Grace["Grace Period"]
        Mark["Set missing_since = now"]
        Wait["Wait 7 days"]
        Restore["Clear missing_since"]
    end
    
    subgraph Action["Final Action"]
        Delete["Delete DB record"]
        Keep["Keep record"]
    end
    
    Check --> Missing
    Missing -->|Yes, first time| Mark
    Missing -->|Yes, >7 days| Delete
    Missing -->|No| Restore
    Mark --> Wait
    Wait -->|Directory returns| Restore
    Wait -->|7 days pass| Delete
    Restore --> Keep
```

### Cleanup Operations

| Operation | Behavior | Threshold |
|-----------|----------|-----------|
| Orphan apps | Mark with `missing_since`, delete after 7 days | `orphan_app_retention_days: 7` |
| Orphan tasks | Cancel tasks targeting deleted apps | Immediate |
| Stuck RUNNING tasks | Mark as FAILED | `stuck_task_timeout_minutes: 120` |
| Stuck PENDING tasks | Mark as CANCELLED | `pending_task_timeout_minutes: 240` |
| Old completed tasks | Delete from database | `task_retention_days: 30` |

### Configuration

```python
# Default configuration in MaintenanceService.__init__
config = {
    'cleanup_orphan_apps': True,
    'cleanup_orphan_tasks': True,
    'cleanup_stuck_tasks': True,
    'cleanup_old_tasks': True,
    'task_retention_days': 30,
    'stuck_task_timeout_minutes': 120,  # 2 hours
    'pending_task_timeout_minutes': 240,  # 4 hours
    'grace_period_minutes': 5,  # Skip very recent tasks
    'orphan_app_retention_days': 7,  # 7-day grace period
}
```

| Variable | Purpose | Default |
|----------|---------|---------|
| `MAINTENANCE_AUTO_START` | Auto-start cleanup | `false` |
| `MAINTENANCE_INTERVAL_SECONDS` | Interval when auto-started | 3600 (1 hour) |

### Usage

```bash
# Recommended: Manual cleanup via orchestrator
./start.ps1 -Mode Maintenance

# Direct Python execution
python -c "
from app.factory import create_app
from app.services.maintenance_service import get_maintenance_service
app = create_app()
with app.app_context():
    get_maintenance_service()._run_maintenance()
"
```

### Database Migration

If upgrading from before Nov 2025, run the migration to add the `missing_since` column:

```bash
python scripts/add_missing_since_column.py
```

### Log Output

```
[MaintenanceService] Starting maintenance run...
[MaintenanceService] Marked 2 apps as missing (grace period: 7 days)
[MaintenanceService] Restored 1 apps (filesystem directories reappeared)
[MaintenanceService] Found 1 orphan apps ready for deletion (missing for >7 days)
[MaintenanceService] Cleaned up 1 orphan app records
[MaintenanceService] Marked 3 stuck tasks as FAILED
[MaintenanceService] Deleted 15 old tasks (>30 days)
[MaintenanceService] Maintenance complete
```

---

## PipelineExecutionService

**Location**: [src/app/services/pipeline_execution_service.py](../src/app/services/pipeline_execution_service.py)

Orchestrates automation pipelines that execute multi-step workflows (generation + analysis).

### Lifecycle

1. **Initialization**: Started in `factory.py` alongside TaskExecutionService
2. **Trigger**: Event-driven (pipeline creation, task completion callbacks)
3. **Execution**: Creates AnalysisTasks and monitors their completion
4. **Completion**: Updates pipeline status based on aggregate task results

### Pipeline Flow

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> PENDING: Pipeline created
    PENDING --> RUNNING: First step starts
    RUNNING --> RUNNING: Steps progress
    RUNNING --> COMPLETED: All steps succeed
    RUNNING --> PARTIAL_SUCCESS: Some steps failed
    RUNNING --> FAILED: Critical step failed
    COMPLETED --> [*]
    PARTIAL_SUCCESS --> [*]
    FAILED --> [*]
```

### Integration with TaskExecutionService

Pipelines create child tasks that are executed by TaskExecutionService:

```mermaid
flowchart TB
    subgraph Pipeline["PipelineExecutionService"]
        P["Pipeline"]
        Step1["Step 1: Generate"]
        Step2["Step 2: Analyze"]
    end
    
    subgraph Tasks["TaskExecutionService"]
        T1["Task 1"]
        T2["Task 2"]
        T3["Task 3"]
    end
    
    P --> Step1
    Step1 --> T1
    Step1 -.->|callback| P
    P --> Step2
    Step2 --> T2
    Step2 --> T3
    T2 -.->|callback| P
    T3 -.->|callback| P
```

---

## Service Interaction

### Startup Order

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant F as factory.py
    participant M as MaintenanceService
    participant T as TaskExecutionService
    participant P as PipelineExecutionService
    
    F->>M: Initialize (manual mode)
    Note over M: No auto-start unless<br/>MAINTENANCE_AUTO_START=true
    F->>T: Initialize and start
    Note over T: Begins polling for PENDING tasks
    F->>P: Initialize and start
    Note over P: Ready for pipeline events
```

### Debugging All Services

```bash
# Check service status via Flask
python -c "
from app.factory import create_app
from app.services.service_locator import ServiceLocator

app = create_app()
with app.app_context():
    tes = ServiceLocator.get_task_execution_service()
    print(f'TaskExecutionService: running={tes._running}')
    
    # Check pending/running tasks
    from app.models import AnalysisTask, AnalysisStatus
    pending = AnalysisTask.query.filter_by(status=AnalysisStatus.PENDING).count()
    running = AnalysisTask.query.filter_by(status=AnalysisStatus.RUNNING).count()
    print(f'Tasks: {pending} pending, {running} running')
"
```

---

## Related Documentation

- [Architecture Overview](./ARCHITECTURE.md) - System design and data flow
- [Troubleshooting](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Common issues and recovery
- [API Reference](./api-reference.md) - Task API endpoints
