docs/QUICK_REF_TESTS_ANALYZER.md, before:

# Quick Reference: Tests & Analyzer

## Running Tests

### Fast Tests (No Integration)
```bash
pytest -m 'not integration and not slow and not analyzer'
```

### Specific Test File
```bash
pytest tests/services/test_simple_generation_service.py -v
```

### With Coverage
```bash
pytest --cov=app tests/ -m 'not integration'
```

### VS Code Task
- `pytest - fast (no integration/slow/analyzer)` - Quick smoke test

## Running Analyzer

### Check Health
```bash
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py health
```

### Analyze Single App (Static Only)
```bash
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py analyze <model> <app_num> static --tools bandit,safety
```

### Examples
```bash
# Claude app with bandit
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py analyze anthropic_claude-3.5-sonnet 3 static --tools bandit

# Test model with safety
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py analyze test_model 1 static --tools safety

# Comprehensive analysis
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py analyze x-ai_grok-beta 2
```

### Batch Analysis
```bash
# Create batch.json with [[model, app_num], ...]
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py batch batch.json --analysis-type static --tools bandit
```

## Test Suite Status

### Passing (70 tests - 80%)
- ✅ SimpleGenerationService (12/12)
- ✅ AnalysisOrchestrator (2/2)  
- ✅ DockerManager (7/9)
- ✅ Dashboard Routes (16/17)
- ✅ Container Management (13/15)

### Failing (17 tests)
- ❌ DockerStatus object comparisons (2)
- ❌ Missing endpoints (8)
- ❌ Jinja redirects (6)
- ❌ Import errors (1)

### Skipped (29 tests)
- 📋 Analysis engines (14) - use orchestrator
- 📋 ModelService methods (15) - use DB directly

## Known Issues

### Fixed ✅
1. **Emoji encoding** - Windows terminal crashes → Fixed with ASCII replacements

### Needs Fix ⚠️
2. **Bandit exit codes** - Exit 1 = issues found, not error
3. **PyLint errors** - Generated code has duplicates
4. **MyPy warnings** - `db.Model` undefined  
5. **ESLint config** - Import assertion errors
6. **Port warnings** - Missing port_config.json entries

## Results Location

### Test Results
```
.pytest_cache/
pytest.ini
```

### Analysis Results
```
results/
├── <model_slug>/
│   └── app<N>/
│       └── analysis/
│           └── *_<type>_<timestamp>.json
└── batch/
    └── batch_analysis_*.json
```

## Key Files

### Tests
```
tests/
├── conftest.py              # Fixtures
├── pytest.ini               # Configuration
├── services/
│   ├── test_docker_manager.py
│   ├── test_simple_generation_service.py
│   ├── test_model_service.py
│   └── test_analysis_service.py
└── routes/
    ├── test_api_routes.py
    ├── test_container_management.py
    ├── test_dashboard_and_stats.py
    └── test_jinja_routes.py
```

### Analyzer
```
analyzer/
├── analyzer_manager.py      # Main CLI (emoji fix applied)
├── docker-compose.yml       # Service orchestration
└── services/
    ├── static-analyzer/     # Bandit, PyLint, ESLint
    ├── dynamic-analyzer/    # Runtime analysis
    ├── performance-tester/  # Locust load tests
    └── ai-analyzer/         # OpenRouter AI review
```

### Docs
```
docs/
├── TEST_SUITE_SUMMARY.md              # Test overview
├── TEST_QUICK_FIX_GUIDE.md           # Fix guide
├── TEST_SUITE_FINAL_SUMMARY.md       # Complete summary
├── ANALYZER_TESTING_REPORT.md        # Bug report
└── SESSION_SUMMARY_TESTS_ANALYZER.md # This session
```

## Common Commands

### Check Test Status
```bash
pytest tests/ -v --co  # List all tests
pytest tests/ -m 'not integration' --tb=no -q  # Quick run
```

### Debug Single Test
```bash
pytest tests/services/test_docker_manager.py::TestDockerManagerStatus::test_is_healthy_true -v
```

### Analyzer Services
```bash
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py start   # Start all
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py stop    # Stop all
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py status  # Check status
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py logs static-analyzer  # View logs
```

### View Results
```bash
# Latest analysis
Get-ChildItem results -Recurse -Filter "*.json" | Sort-Object LastWriteTime -Descending | Select-Object -First 1

# Pretty print JSON
python -m json.tool results/batch/batch_analysis_*.json
```

## Quick Fixes

### Fix Test #1: DockerStatus
```python
# Change from:
assert status == 'running'

# To:
assert status.state == 'running'
# OR
assert hasattr(status, 'is_running')
```

### Fix Test #2: Jinja Redirects
```python
# Add follow_redirects to all Jinja route tests:
response = client.get('/models/', follow_redirects=True)
```

### Fix Test #3: Skip Missing Endpoints
```python
@pytest.mark.skip(reason="/api/status endpoint not implemented")
def test_status_endpoint(self, client):
    ...
```

## Troubleshooting

### Tests Hang
- Check if Flask app is already running
- Kill celery workers: `pkill -f celery`

### Analyzer Connection Errors
- Verify Docker is running: `docker ps`
- Check service health: `python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py health`
- Restart services: `python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py restart`

### Import Errors
- Activate venv: `.venv\Scripts\activate`
- Install deps: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

### Port Conflicts
- Check ports: `netstat -ano | findstr :<port>`
- Update .env: `BACKEND_PORT=5001`

## Success Metrics

- **Test Pass Rate**: 80% (70/87 runnable)
- **Service Health**: 100% (4/4 services)
- **Analysis Success**: 100% (4/4 apps)
- **Batch Performance**: 8.98s per app

---
**Last Updated**: October 16, 2025  
**Status**: ✅ All systems operational  
**Next**: Apply pending fixes for 90%+ pass rate

Commit message:

generation: consolidate legacy SimpleGenerationService into GenerationService shim; update docs, tests & plumbing
- Replace references to the retired simple_generation_service with generation.py / get_generation_service across routes, jinja views, multi-step service, scripts and service locator.
- Add lightweight shim (simple_generation_service.py) that emits a deprecation warning and proxies to get_generation_service() for backward compatibility.
- Change ScaffoldingManager.get_ports signature to accept (model_slug, app_num) and integrate PortAllocationService with a deterministic fallback for local/dev.
- Update callsites to pass model_slug when resolving ports (API routes, GenerationService internals, regenerate_compose script, multi-step service).
- Add dashboard/metrics helpers to GenerationService: get_generation_status() and get_summary_metrics().
- Simplify and refocus tests: test_simple_generation_service now verifies shim behavior and singleton semantics.
- Update documentation to reflect the consolidated GenerationService, port allocator fallback, and legacy notes across multiple docs.
- Minor typing/import cleanup and small refactors to align with the new service API.

docs/QUICK_REF_TESTS_ANALYZER.md, after:

# Quick Reference: Tests & Analyzer

> **Note:** The `test_simple_generation_service.py` entry now exercises the
> compatibility shim that forwards to `GenerationService`.

## Running Tests

### Fast Tests (No Integration)
```bash
pytest -m 'not integration and not slow and not analyzer'
```

### Specific Test File
```bash
pytest tests/services/test_simple_generation_service.py -v
```

### With Coverage
```bash
pytest --cov=app tests/ -m 'not integration'
```

### VS Code Task
- `pytest - fast (no integration/slow/analyzer)` - Quick smoke test

## Running Analyzer

### Check Health
```bash
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py health
```

### Analyze Single App (Static Only)
```bash
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py analyze <model> <app_num> static --tools bandit,safety
```

### Examples
```bash
# Claude app with bandit
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py analyze anthropic_claude-3.5-sonnet 3 static --tools bandit

# Test model with safety
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py analyze test_model 1 static --tools safety

# Comprehensive analysis
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py analyze x-ai_grok-beta 2
```

### Batch Analysis
```bash
# Create batch.json with [[model, app_num], ...]
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py batch batch.json --analysis-type static --tools bandit
```

## Test Suite Status

### Passing (70 tests - 80%)
- ✅ SimpleGenerationService (12/12)
- ✅ AnalysisOrchestrator (2/2)  
- ✅ DockerManager (7/9)
- ✅ Dashboard Routes (16/17)
- ✅ Container Management (13/15)

### Failing (17 tests)
- ❌ DockerStatus object comparisons (2)
- ❌ Missing endpoints (8)
- ❌ Jinja redirects (6)
- ❌ Import errors (1)

### Skipped (29 tests)
- 📋 Analysis engines (14) - use orchestrator
- 📋 ModelService methods (15) - use DB directly

## Known Issues

### Fixed ✅
1. **Emoji encoding** - Windows terminal crashes → Fixed with ASCII replacements

### Needs Fix ⚠️
2. **Bandit exit codes** - Exit 1 = issues found, not error
3. **PyLint errors** - Generated code has duplicates
4. **MyPy warnings** - `db.Model` undefined  
5. **ESLint config** - Import assertion errors
6. **Port warnings** - Missing port_config.json entries

## Results Location

### Test Results
```
.pytest_cache/
pytest.ini
```

### Analysis Results
```
results/
├── <model_slug>/
│   └── app<N>/
│       └── analysis/
│           └── *_<type>_<timestamp>.json
└── batch/
    └── batch_analysis_*.json
```

## Key Files

### Tests
```
tests/
├── conftest.py              # Fixtures
├── pytest.ini               # Configuration
├── services/
│   ├── test_docker_manager.py
│   ├── test_simple_generation_service.py
│   ├── test_model_service.py
│   └── test_analysis_service.py
└── routes/
    ├── test_api_routes.py
    ├── test_container_management.py
    ├── test_dashboard_and_stats.py
    └── test_jinja_routes.py
```

### Analyzer
```
analyzer/
├── analyzer_manager.py      # Main CLI (emoji fix applied)
├── docker-compose.yml       # Service orchestration
└── services/
    ├── static-analyzer/     # Bandit, PyLint, ESLint
    ├── dynamic-analyzer/    # Runtime analysis
    ├── performance-tester/  # Locust load tests
    └── ai-analyzer/         # OpenRouter AI review
```

### Docs
```
docs/
├── TEST_SUITE_SUMMARY.md              # Test overview
├── TEST_QUICK_FIX_GUIDE.md           # Fix guide
├── TEST_SUITE_FINAL_SUMMARY.md       # Complete summary
├── ANALYZER_TESTING_REPORT.md        # Bug report
└── SESSION_SUMMARY_TESTS_ANALYZER.md # This session
```

## Common Commands

### Check Test Status
```bash
pytest tests/ -v --co  # List all tests
pytest tests/ -m 'not integration' --tb=no -q  # Quick run
```

### Debug Single Test
```bash
pytest tests/services/test_docker_manager.py::TestDockerManagerStatus::test_is_healthy_true -v
```

### Analyzer Services
```bash
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py start   # Start all
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py stop    # Stop all
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py status  # Check status
python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py logs static-analyzer  # View logs
```

### View Results
```bash
# Latest analysis
Get-ChildItem results -Recurse -Filter "*.json" | Sort-Object LastWriteTime -Descending | Select-Object -First 1

# Pretty print JSON
python -m json.tool results/batch/batch_analysis_*.json
```

## Quick Fixes

### Fix Test #1: DockerStatus
```python
# Change from:
assert status == 'running'

# To:
assert status.state == 'running'
# OR
assert hasattr(status, 'is_running')
```

### Fix Test #2: Jinja Redirects
```python
# Add follow_redirects to all Jinja route tests:
response = client.get('/models/', follow_redirects=True)
```

### Fix Test #3: Skip Missing Endpoints
```python
@pytest.mark.skip(reason="/api/status endpoint not implemented")
def test_status_endpoint(self, client):
    ...
```

## Troubleshooting

### Tests Hang
- Check if Flask app is already running
- Kill celery workers: `pkill -f celery`

### Analyzer Connection Errors
- Verify Docker is running: `docker ps`
- Check service health: `python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py health`
- Restart services: `python analyzer/analyzer_manager.py restart`

### Import Errors
- Activate venv: `.venv\Scripts\activate`
- Install deps: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

### Port Conflicts
- Check ports: `netstat -ano | findstr :<port>`
- Update .env: `BACKEND_PORT=5001`

## Success Metrics

- **Test Pass Rate**: 80% (70/87 runnable)
- **Service Health**: 100% (4/4 services)
- **Analysis Success**: 100% (4/4 apps)
- **Batch Performance**: 8.98s per app

---
**Last Updated**: October 16, 2025  
**Status**: ✅ All systems operational  
**Next**: Apply pending fixes for 90%+ pass rate
