docs/TEST_SUITE_SUMMARY.md, before:

# Test Suite Creation Summary

## Overview
Created comprehensive pytest test suites for the ThesisAppRework web application's main functionalities, using Pylance and MCP for debugging and validation.

## Test Files Created

### 1. Service Layer Tests (`tests/services/`)

#### `test_docker_manager.py` - Docker Container Management
- **Test Coverage:**
  - Container status checking (running/stopped/not_found)
  - Container lifecycle (start/stop/restart)
  - Container building and rebuilding
  - Log retrieval and streaming
  - Error handling for Docker unavailability
  - Integration tests (skipped, requires Docker daemon)

- **Issues Found via Pylance:**
  - `DockerManager.__init__()` doesn't take `app_dir` parameter
  - `get_container_status()` requires `container_name` parameter
  - `start_containers()`, `stop_containers()`, etc. require `model` and `app_num` parameters
  
- **Test Classes:** 6 classes, 15 test methods

#### `test_simple_generation_service.py` - Code Generation Service
- **Test Coverage:**
  - Scaffolding new applications
  - Component generation (backend/frontend)
  - Code validation (backend/frontend)
  - Port allocation and management
  - File operations (write/backup)
  - Application tracking in database
  - Full generation workflow integration

- **Issues Found via Pylance:**
  - Many methods don't exist on `SimpleGenerationService`:
    - `_create_directory_structure()`, `_call_ai_model()`, `_run_linters()`
    - `get_or_allocate_ports()`, `write_code()`, `backup_file()`
    - `register_app()`, `update_app_status()`, `generate_component()`
  
- **Test Classes:** 7 classes, 18 test methods

#### `test_model_service.py` - Model Management Service
- **Test Coverage:**
  - Model retrieval (all models, by slug, nonexistent)
  - Model filtering (by capability, by provider)
  - Model statistics (usage stats, success rate)
  - Model creation and updates
  - Model synchronization from OpenRouter
  - Model pricing information
  - Model capability checking

- **Issues Found via Pylance:**
  - `ModelService.__init__()` requires `app` parameter (missing in fixture)
  
- **Test Classes:** 7 classes, 17 test methods

#### `test_analysis_service.py` - Analysis Operations
- **Test Coverage:**
  - Security analysis (Bandit, Safety, vulnerability detection)
  - Performance analysis (load testing, response time)
  - Code quality analysis (Pylint, ESLint, complexity)
  - Dynamic analysis (runtime behavior, memory profiling)
  - AI-powered analysis (code review, improvement suggestions)
  - Analysis orchestration (full analysis, selective)
  - Results storage (save/load JSON)

- **Issues Found via Pylance:**
  - Engine classes don't exist:
    - `StaticAnalysisEngine`, `PerformanceAnalysisEngine`
    - `DynamicAnalysisEngine`, `AIAnalysisEngine`
  - `AnalysisOrchestrator` methods don't match expected API
  - `AnalysisResultStore` class doesn't exist
  
- **Test Classes:** 7 classes, 19 test methods

### 2. Route/API Tests (`tests/routes/`)

#### `test_dashboard_and_stats.py` - Dashboard & Statistics
- **Test Coverage:**
  - Dashboard summary cards (applications, models)
  - System status (Docker, Celery)
  - Recent activity feeds
  - Statistics calculations (generation, models, analysis)
  - Chart data endpoints
  - Health and performance metrics
  - Statistics export (JSON, CSV)

- **Test Classes:** 7 classes, 17 test methods

#### `test_container_management.py` - Container Management UI
- **Test Coverage:**
  - Container status API endpoints
  - Container lifecycle operations (start/stop/restart)
  - Container build and rebuild
  - Container log viewing (backend/frontend, streaming)
  - Port management
  - Container health checks
  - Bulk operations (start-all, stop-all)
  - UI endpoint tests

- **Test Classes:** 8 classes, 19 test methods

### 3. Existing Tests (Updated for context)
- `test_api_routes.py` - Core API endpoint tests (10 classes, ~30 methods)
- `test_jinja_routes.py` - Template rendering tests (7 classes)

## Pylance/MCP Debugging Results

### Syntax Validation
- ✅ All test files have **zero syntax errors**
- ✅ Proper Python structure validated by Pylance

### Import Analysis
Using `mcp_pylance_mcp_s_pylanceImports`:
- Found 21 installed packages
- Identified 5 missing modules (expected for local imports)

### Code Quality Issues Found
Using Pylance's real-time linting:
1. **Unused imports**: Flagged `Mock`, `MagicMock`, `Path` where unused
2. **Boolean comparisons**: Caught `== True` patterns (should use direct truthiness)
3. **Unused variables**: Identified assigned but never used variables
4. **Missing parameters**: Detected incorrect function signatures

### Real API Mismatches Discovered
The tests successfully identified several architectural issues:

1. **Docker Manager API**: Methods require different parameters than assumed
2. **Generation Service**: Many utility methods are private or don't exist as designed
3. **Model Service**: Requires Flask app context in constructor
4. **Analysis Engines**: Different class names/structure than expected
5. **Orchestrator**: API doesn't match assumed interface

## Test Execution Results

### Summary
- **Total Tests**: 105 test methods created
- **Passed**: 6 tests passed (existing basic tests)
- **Failed**: 35 tests failed (discovered real API issues)
- **Errors**: 16 tests had setup errors (fixture issues)
- **Skipped**: 2 tests skipped (integration tests requiring Docker)
- **Warnings**: 5 warnings (integration marker not registered)

### Key Findings
- Tests **successfully validated** that the application starts
- Tests **discovered real API incompatibilities** between expected and actual interfaces
- Tests provide **excellent documentation** of intended functionality
- Tests will **pass once services are aligned** with expected interfaces

## Benefits of Pylance/MCP Integration

1. **Early Error Detection**: Caught 30+ issues before test execution
2. **Code Intelligence**: Identified exact parameter mismatches
3. **Import Validation**: Verified all dependencies are installed
4. **Refactoring Safety**: Tests will prevent breaking changes
5. **Documentation**: Tests serve as living API documentation

## Recommendations

### Immediate Actions
1. **Fix Service Fixtures**: Update to match actual constructors
2. **Align APIs**: Either update tests or service implementations
3. **Register Markers**: Add `integration` marker to pytest.ini
4. **Fix Imports**: Remove unused imports flagged by Pylance

### Test Infrastructure Improvements
1. **Add conftest.py**: Shared fixtures for common setups
2. **Mock Factory**: Centralized mock creation
3. **Test Data**: Fixtures for common test data
4. **Coverage**: Configure pytest-cov for coverage reports

### CI/CD Integration
```yaml
# Suggested GitHub Actions workflow
- name: Run Tests
  run: |
    pytest tests/ -v --tb=short
    pytest tests/ --cov=src/app --cov-report=html
```

## Files Created
```
tests/
├── services/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── test_docker_manager.py (197 lines)
│   ├── test_simple_generation_service.py (283 lines)
│   ├── test_model_service.py (287 lines)
│   └── test_analysis_service.py (370 lines)
└── routes/
    ├── test_dashboard_and_stats.py (182 lines)
    └── test_container_management.py (290 lines)
```

**Total Lines of Test Code**: ~1,609 lines

## Next Steps
1. Review and fix the discovered API mismatches
2. Run tests again to verify fixes
3. Add integration tests for end-to-end workflows
4. Set up continuous testing in CI/CD pipeline
5. Aim for >90% code coverage

Commit message:

generation: consolidate legacy SimpleGenerationService into GenerationService shim; update docs, tests & plumbing
- Replace references to the retired simple_generation_service with generation.py / get_generation_service across routes, jinja views, multi-step service, scripts and service locator.
- Add lightweight shim (simple_generation_service.py) that emits a deprecation warning and proxies to get_generation_service() for backward compatibility.
- Change ScaffoldingManager.get_ports signature to accept (model_slug, app_num) and integrate PortAllocationService with a deterministic fallback for local/dev.
- Update callsites to pass model_slug when resolving ports (API routes, GenerationService internals, regenerate_compose script, multi-step service).
- Add dashboard/metrics helpers to GenerationService: get_generation_status() and get_summary_metrics().
- Simplify and refocus tests: test_simple_generation_service now verifies shim behavior and singleton semantics.
- Update documentation to reflect the consolidated GenerationService, port allocator fallback, and legacy notes across multiple docs.
- Minor typing/import cleanup and small refactors to align with the new service API.

docs/TEST_SUITE_SUMMARY.md, after:

# Test Suite Creation Summary

## Overview
Created comprehensive pytest test suites for the ThesisAppRework web application's main functionalities, using Pylance and MCP for debugging and validation.

## Test Files Created

### 1. Service Layer Tests (`tests/services/`)

#### `test_docker_manager.py` - Docker Container Management
- **Test Coverage:**
  - Container status checking (running/stopped/not_found)
  - Container lifecycle (start/stop/restart)
  - Container building and rebuilding
  - Log retrieval and streaming
  - Error handling for Docker unavailability
  - Integration tests (skipped, requires Docker daemon)

- **Issues Found via Pylance:**
  - `DockerManager.__init__()` doesn't take `app_dir` parameter
  - `get_container_status()` requires `container_name` parameter
  - `start_containers()`, `stop_containers()`, etc. require `model` and `app_num` parameters
  
- **Test Classes:** 6 classes, 15 test methods

#### `test_simple_generation_service.py` - Legacy Shim Coverage
- **Test Coverage:**
  - Ensures `get_simple_generation_service()` delegates to the new `GenerationService`
  - Verifies the deprecation warning emitted by the shim
  - Confirms repeated calls reuse the singleton instance

- **Notes:**
  - The historic, large test plan for the legacy implementation has been retired
  - Documentation retained here for context, but the active tests focus solely on compatibility
  
- **Test Classes:** 1 class, 2 test functions

#### `test_model_service.py` - Model Management Service
- **Test Coverage:**
  - Model retrieval (all models, by slug, nonexistent)
  - Model filtering (by capability, by provider)
  - Model statistics (usage stats, success rate)
  - Model creation and updates
  - Model synchronization from OpenRouter
  - Model pricing information
  - Model capability checking

- **Issues Found via Pylance:**
  - `ModelService.__init__()` requires `app` parameter (missing in fixture)
  
- **Test Classes:** 7 classes, 17 test methods

#### `test_analysis_service.py` - Analysis Operations
- **Test Coverage:**
  - Security analysis (Bandit, Safety, vulnerability detection)
  - Performance analysis (load testing, response time)
  - Code quality analysis (Pylint, ESLint, complexity)
  - Dynamic analysis (runtime behavior, memory profiling)
  - AI-powered analysis (code review, improvement suggestions)
  - Analysis orchestration (full analysis, selective)
  - Results storage (save/load JSON)

- **Issues Found via Pylance:**
  - Engine classes don't exist:
    - `StaticAnalysisEngine`, `PerformanceAnalysisEngine`
    - `DynamicAnalysisEngine`, `AIAnalysisEngine`
  - `AnalysisOrchestrator` methods don't match expected API
  - `AnalysisResultStore` class doesn't exist
  
- **Test Classes:** 7 classes, 19 test methods

### 2. Route/API Tests (`tests/routes/`)

#### `test_dashboard_and_stats.py` - Dashboard & Statistics
- **Test Coverage:**
  - Dashboard summary cards (applications, models)
  - System status (Docker, Celery)
  - Recent activity feeds
  - Statistics calculations (generation, models, analysis)
  - Chart data endpoints
  - Health and performance metrics
  - Statistics export (JSON, CSV)

- **Test Classes:** 7 classes, 17 test methods

#### `test_container_management.py` - Container Management UI
- **Test Coverage:**
  - Container status API endpoints
  - Container lifecycle operations (start/stop/restart)
  - Container build and rebuild
  - Container log viewing (backend/frontend, streaming)
  - Port management
  - Container health checks
  - Bulk operations (start-all, stop-all)
  - UI endpoint tests

- **Test Classes:** 8 classes, 19 test methods

### 3. Existing Tests (Updated for context)
- `test_api_routes.py` - Core API endpoint tests (10 classes, ~30 methods)
- `test_jinja_routes.py` - Template rendering tests (7 classes)

## Pylance/MCP Debugging Results

### Syntax Validation
- ✅ All test files have **zero syntax errors**
- ✅ Proper Python structure validated by Pylance

### Import Analysis
Using `mcp_pylance_mcp_s_pylanceImports`:
- Found 21 installed packages
- Identified 5 missing modules (expected for local imports)

### Code Quality Issues Found
Using Pylance's real-time linting:
1. **Unused imports**: Flagged `Mock`, `MagicMock`, `Path` where unused
2. **Boolean comparisons**: Caught `== True` patterns (should use direct truthiness)
3. **Unused variables**: Identified assigned but never used variables
4. **Missing parameters**: Detected incorrect function signatures

### Real API Mismatches Discovered
The tests successfully identified several architectural issues:

1. **Docker Manager API**: Methods require different parameters than assumed
2. **Generation Service**: Many utility methods are private or don't exist as designed
3. **Model Service**: Requires Flask app context in constructor
4. **Analysis Engines**: Different class names/structure than expected
5. **Orchestrator**: API doesn't match assumed interface

## Test Execution Results

### Summary
- **Total Tests**: 105 test methods created
- **Passed**: 6 tests passed (existing basic tests)
- **Failed**: 35 tests failed (discovered real API issues)
- **Errors**: 16 tests had setup errors (fixture issues)
- **Skipped**: 2 tests skipped (integration tests requiring Docker)
- **Warnings**: 5 warnings (integration marker not registered)

### Key Findings
- Tests **successfully validated** that the application starts
- Tests **discovered real API incompatibilities** between expected and actual interfaces
- Tests provide **excellent documentation** of intended functionality
- Tests will **pass once services are aligned** with expected interfaces

## Benefits of Pylance/MCP Integration

1. **Early Error Detection**: Caught 30+ issues before test execution
2. **Code Intelligence**: Identified exact parameter mismatches
3. **Import Validation**: Verified all dependencies are installed
4. **Refactoring Safety**: Tests will prevent breaking changes
5. **Documentation**: Tests serve as living API documentation

## Recommendations

### Immediate Actions
1. **Fix Service Fixtures**: Update to match actual constructors
2. **Align APIs**: Either update tests or service implementations
3. **Register Markers**: Add `integration` marker to pytest.ini
4. **Fix Imports**: Remove unused imports flagged by Pylance

### Test Infrastructure Improvements
1. **Add conftest.py**: Shared fixtures for common setups
2. **Mock Factory**: Centralized mock creation
3. **Test Data**: Fixtures for common test data
4. **Coverage**: Configure pytest-cov for coverage reports

### CI/CD Integration
```yaml
# Suggested GitHub Actions workflow
- name: Run Tests
  run: |
    pytest tests/ -v --tb=short
    pytest tests/ --cov=src/app --cov-report=html
```

## Files Created
```
tests/
├── services/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── test_docker_manager.py (197 lines)
│   ├── test_simple_generation_service.py (283 lines)
│   ├── test_model_service.py (287 lines)
│   └── test_analysis_service.py (370 lines)
└── routes/
    ├── test_dashboard_and_stats.py (182 lines)
    └── test_container_management.py (290 lines)
```

**Total Lines of Test Code**: ~1,609 lines

## Next Steps
1. Review and fix the discovered API mismatches
2. Run tests again to verify fixes
3. Add integration tests for end-to-end workflows
4. Set up continuous testing in CI/CD pipeline
5. Aim for >90% code coverage
